README.md, before:

# LinkerConfig

## Introduction

Linkerconfig is a program to generate linker configuration based on the runtime
environment. Linkerconfig generates one or more ld.config.txt files and some
other files under /linkerconfig during init. Linker will read this generated
configuration file(s) to find out link relationship between libraries and
executable.

## Inputs

TODO: explain inputs (e.g. /system/etc/public.libraries.txt,
/apex/apex-info-list.xml, ..)

### linker.config.json

Linker configuration file can be used to add extra information while linkerconfig
creates linker configuration with the module. This module can be defined as
`linker_config` from Soong, and it will be translated as protobuf file at build
time.

A linker configuration file(linker.config.json) is compiled into a protobuf at build time
by `conv_linker_config`. You can find the compiled file under `<base>/etc/linker.config.pb`.
For example, `/apex/com.android.art/etc/linker.config.pb` is a configuration for the `com.android.art`
APEX.

`/system/etc/linker.config.pb`(or its source module `system_linker_config`) is special because
its `provideLibs` key is generated at build time.

#### Format

linker.config.json file is in json format which can contain properties as below.

| Property Name | Type | Description                                          | Allowed module |
| ------------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| permittedPaths| List<string> | Additional permitted paths | APEX |
| visible       | bool | Force APEX namespace to be visible from all sections if the value is true | APEX |
| provideLibs   | List<string> | Libraries providing from the module | System |
| requireLibs   | List<string> | Libraries required from the module | System |

#### Example

##### APEX module
```
{
    "permittedPaths" : [ "/a", "/b/c", "/d/e/f"],
    "visible": true
}
```

##### System
```
{
    "provideLibs" : [ "a.so", "b.so", "c.so" ],
    "requireLibs" : [ "foo.so", "bar.so", "baz.so" ]
}
```

## Outputs

### /linkerconfig/ld.config.txt & /linkerconfig/*/ld.config.txt

TODO: a few words about the files

Check
[ld.config.format.md](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/bionic/+/master/linker/ld.config.format.md).

### /linkerconfig/apex.libraries.txt

The file describes libraries exposed from APEXes. libnativeloader is the main
consumer of this file.

```
# comment line
jni com_android_foo libfoo_jni.so
public com_android_bar libbar.so:libbaz.so
```

The file is line-based and each line consists of `tag apex_namespace
library_list`.

-   `tag` explains what `library_list` is.
-   `apex_namespace` is the namespace of the apex. Note that it is mangled like
    `com_android_foo` for the APEX("com.android.foo").
-   `library_list` is colon-separated list of library names.
    -   if `tag` is `jni`, `library_list` is the list of JNI libraries exposed
        by `apex_namespace`.
    -   if `tag` is `public`, `library_list` is the list of public libraries
        exposed by `apex_namespace`. Here, public libraries are the libs listed
        in `/system/etc/public.libraries.txt.`

Commit message:

doc: added a section about public.libraries.txt
Bug: 292674836
Test: n/a
Change-Id: I7de92572d389fddfcc022a5f3417907fe940d458

README.md, after:

# LinkerConfig

## Introduction

Linkerconfig is a program to generate linker configuration based on the runtime
environment. Linkerconfig generates one or more ld.config.txt files and some
other files under /linkerconfig during init. Linker will read this generated
configuration file(s) to find out link relationship between libraries and
executable.

## Inputs

TODO: explain inputs (e.g. /system/etc/public.libraries.txt,
/apex/apex-info-list.xml, ..)

### linker.config.json

Linker configuration file can be used to add extra information while linkerconfig
creates linker configuration with the module. This module can be defined as
`linker_config` from Soong, and it will be translated as protobuf file at build
time.

A linker configuration file(linker.config.json) is compiled into a protobuf at build time
by `conv_linker_config`. You can find the compiled file under `<base>/etc/linker.config.pb`.
For example, `/apex/com.android.art/etc/linker.config.pb` is a configuration for the `com.android.art`
APEX.

`/system/etc/linker.config.pb`(or its source module `system_linker_config`) is special because
its `provideLibs` key is generated at build time.

#### Format

linker.config.json file is in json format which can contain properties as below.

| Property Name | Type | Description                                          | Allowed module |
| ------------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| permittedPaths| List<string> | Additional permitted paths | APEX |
| visible       | bool | Force APEX namespace to be visible from all sections if the value is true | APEX |
| provideLibs   | List<string> | Libraries providing from the module | System |
| requireLibs   | List<string> | Libraries required from the module | System |

#### Example

##### APEX module
```
{
    "permittedPaths" : [ "/a", "/b/c", "/d/e/f"],
    "visible": true
}
```

##### System
```
{
    "provideLibs" : [ "a.so", "b.so", "c.so" ],
    "requireLibs" : [ "foo.so", "bar.so", "baz.so" ]
}
```

### public.libraries.txt

`linkerconfig` reads both `/system/etc/public.libraries.txt` and `/vendor/etc/public.libraries.txt` to identify
libraries that are provided by APEX and accessible from apps via `libnativeloader`.

`linkerconfig` generates `apex.libraries.config.txt` file which lists public libraries provided APEX. `libnativeloader`, then,
links those libraries from classloader-namespace to providing APEXes.

## Outputs

### /linkerconfig/ld.config.txt & /linkerconfig/*/ld.config.txt

TODO: a few words about the files

Check
[ld.config.format.md](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/bionic/+/master/linker/ld.config.format.md).

### /linkerconfig/apex.libraries.txt

The file describes libraries exposed from APEXes. libnativeloader is the main
consumer of this file.

```
# comment line
jni com_android_foo libfoo_jni.so
public com_android_bar libbar.so:libbaz.so
```

The file is line-based and each line consists of `tag apex_namespace
library_list`.

-   `tag` explains what `library_list` is.
-   `apex_namespace` is the namespace of the apex. Note that it is mangled like
    `com_android_foo` for the APEX("com.android.foo").
-   `library_list` is colon-separated list of library names.
    -   if `tag` is `jni`, `library_list` is the list of JNI libraries exposed
        by `apex_namespace`.
    -   if `tag` is `public`, `library_list` is the list of public libraries
        exposed by `apex_namespace`. Here, public libraries are the libs listed
        in `/system/etc/public.libraries.txt.`
